# CSCD94 Project - Fall 2021: A modern programming language with built-in asynchronous primitives

The original idea to embark on this project stems from a joint fascination for
different kinds of language parsers and the craving desire to obtain the arsenal
of skills required to implement an imperative programming language. I have, ever
since asking the question, "how are programming languages made?" - always been
interested in implementing compilers.

Before I came across Bob Nystrom's *Crafting Interpreters* book, the closest I
ever came to implementing some form of parser could be found in my first year
computer science course (CSCA48) assignment called Formula Game. It was
thrilling at the time to have just learned about the basics of recursion and yet
to have implemented something which I believed at the time to be very neat. I
saw it as a harvest of the skills I developed and a reassurance that I was
learning something useful.   

Through the lens of my first-year self, this project is the culmination of a
wide variety of skills I developed here at U of T's Computer Science program and
also a satisfying milestone in my interests in compilers. On the other hand,
this project is also a starting point in a field of Computer Science I wish to
eventually build a career from.  

The work I've done here is from reading and carefully following the *Crafting
Interpreters* guide. Apart from the book, I've also introduced the ideas of
asynchronous primitives and mechanics popularized by Go and NodeJS. Alongside
this project I have also been given an introduction to the theoretical side of
programming languages through Robert Harper's *Practical Foundations in
Programming Languages* book and a quick taste of what areas of research are
being done in programming languages. 

This book has opened my eyes to a variety of programming paradigms and most
importantly given me a formal outline for the many different semantics seen in
modern programming languages. To that end, it has also allowed me to realize the
subtle distinctions between different language constructs and how they behave
during execution.

It has been a thought provoking and breath-taking experience to have started in
September with little knowledge about programming languages and in the period of
three to four months to have implemented a small programming language and have
also seen a brief overview of the theoretical side.   

### References
- Crafting Interpreters - https://craftinginterpreters.com/
- Practical Foundations in Programming Languages (PFPL) -
  https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~rwh/pfpl/2nded.pdf

### Credits

- Thanks to Dr. Thierry Sans for his supervision and support in the past four
  months.
- Thanks to Robert Nystrom for his Crafting Interpreters book.
- Thanks to Robert Harper for this Practical Foundations in Programming
  Languages book.
