# CSCD94 Project - Fall 2021: A modern programming language with built-in asynchronous primitives

The original idea to embark on this project stems from a joint fascination for
different kinds of language parsers and the craving desire to obtain the arsenal
of skills required to implement an imperative programming language. Ever since
asking the question "How are programming languages made?", I have always been
interested in implementing compilers.

Before I came across Bob Nystrom's *Crafting Interpreters* book, the closest I
ever came to implementing some form of parser could be found in my first year
computer science course (CSCA48) assignment called Formula Game.It was thrilling
at the time, having just learned about the basics of recursion, and yet being
able to implement something which I believed at the time to be very neat. I saw
it as a harvest of the skills I developed and a reassurance that I was learning
something useful.   

Through the lens of my first-year self, this project is the culmination of a
wide variety of skills I developed here at U of T's Computer Science program and
also a significant milestone in my ongoing exploration into compilers. On the
other hand, this project is also a starting point in a field of Computer Science
I wish to eventually build a career from.

The work I've done here is from reading and carefully following the *Crafting
Interpreters* guide. Apart from the book, I've also introduced the ideas of
asynchronous primitives and mechanics popularized by Go and NodeJS. Alongside
this project I have also been given an introduction to the theoretical side of
programming languages through Robert Harper's *Practical Foundations in
Programming Languages* book and a quick taste of what areas of research are
being done in programming languages. 

This book has opened my eyes to a variety of programming paradigms and most
importantly given me a formal outline for the many different semantics seen in
modern programming languages. To that end, it has also allowed me to realize the
subtle distinctions between language constructs and how they behave during
execution.

It has been a thought-provoking and breathtaking experience to start in
September with little knowledge about programming languages, and in the period
of three to four months, implement a small programming language and also receive
a brief overview on the theoretical side of this subject.

### References
- Crafting Interpreters - https://craftinginterpreters.com/
- Practical Foundations in Programming Languages (PFPL) -
  https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~rwh/pfpl/2nded.pdf

### Credits

- Thanks to Dr. Thierry Sans for his supervision and support in the past four
  months.
- Thanks to Robert Nystrom for his Crafting Interpreters book.
- Thanks to Robert Harper for this Practical Foundations in Programming
  Languages book.
